on Tuesday November 3rd of 2020 our
first guest could make history as the
first woman and the first kamila ever to
be elected president of the United
States
she's from right here in Los Angeles
please say hello to Senator Kamala
Harris
[Applause]
[Music]
welcome home I was in last night how's
the running for president thing going
I'm enjoying it I know what that says
about my personality but I'm really
enjoying it I have a feeling that it's
gonna be kind of fun to go out there and
mix it up and field questions and listen
to people cheering and seeing people in
states you might not have visited before
it is and but you know Jimmy the thing
that I'm loving most is going to you
know the last trip I took some South
Carolina for example in rural towns
where it is much more intimate where
it's direct conversations where whatever
you're thinking is being challenged I
feel so strongly that this has to be a
campaign that not only well let me just
say I fully intend to win doing this
otherwise yeah but a metric of success
for me will also be that at the end of
the process we are relevant and so what
I'm enjoying most is being in places
where I listen especially at this phase
of it more than I talk and where I am
validating or verifying or being set
straight about really what are the
priorities of people and it's been a
great process how does your family feel
about this so so we my husband is one of
the most supportive people who've ever
met he has a great sense of humor he
loves people and he joins me on the road
when he can but he's based here in LA
what is his name Doug I don't know if
we're ready for a first lady he's very
much enjoying being the spouse of oh he
is he's having fun he's very secure and
and then our kids we have two 23 and 19
and they've been so incredibly
supportive are they nervous about the
you know the people prying into their
lives I'm nervous about that you are
Yeah right
I'm nervous about that because did you
go through all their stuff and go like
we got to check Instagram
and make sure everything's right I mean
because well it's you know look it's it
is what it is right listen we all know
that nobody is perfect I said that in my
opening speech when I announced my
candidacy in my hometown of Oakland
California in front of 22,000 people
which is I am not perfect our kids are
not perfect my husband is not perfect
and I don't think that the American
people want perfect what they want is a
leader who is going to put their
interest above self-interest well based
on what's going on now we definitely
didn't want perfect I mean we quite
clearly settled for less than perfect so
the whole thing is really interesting
because well you got a big bump today on
CNN did a poll and your I think they
have you in third you jumped a lot of
points behind Bernie Sanders and Joe
Biden who's not technically running yet
but obviously he's going to run do you
want Joe but would you rather he doesn't
run I think that everyone who wants to
run should run everyone wants to leave
the more the merrier because we've got
we do not lack for talent among
Democrats and I think that it is good to
have a robust competition to get to the
point of of determining who will be the
nominee for the party are Joe and Bernie
too old to be President of the United
States I think age is more than a
chronological fact I think it's a state
of mind and if each candidate can show
that they have an ability to understand
where people are right now and also have
a vision for the future then I think
they will be successful our people are
absurdly interpretive our people
learning how to pronounce your first
name it helps when I tell them that it's
like comma like a punctuation mark and
then add a la I have a way that I
because I know if you remember because
we're we're about the same and yes there
was a wrestler named Kamala D Ugandan
Johnny the same way you do and that's
what I thought about the first time I
saw your name
recently do you know what smile he's I
don't think he's in great health but
he's still around him on the trail by
the way because he was very very strange
but and this is something we talk about
of my family you I mean she's much older
than you obviously but you look like my
mom
nope yes and I brought some in fact it's
my mother's birthday it's fantastic yeah
a little crazy but but she's lovely yes
that's how I remember is I think I think
of Pamela and mom my mom Allah you know
that's what our kids call me because
well they call you mama
yeah because um they are we don't use
the term in our family stepmother okay I
think Disney mess that up for everybody
but they are technically my stepchildren
but they are my children and and they
call me mom Allah and and we have a very
modern family my husband's ex-wife the
kid's mother and her mother came to our
house for Thanksgiving oh good you gotta
get her in line you know you gotta make
sure it's really great actually
senator Warren Elizabeth Warren had a
town hall last night and she said that
she thinks we should do away with the
electoral college is that do you agree
with that I think that it's I'm open to
the discussion I mean there's no
question that the popular vote has been
diminished in terms of making the final
decision about who's the president
United States and we need to deal with
that so I'm open to the discussion
President Trump wants to get rid of at
regular college college altogether
indeed because you know exactly I guess
he's decided it's not important or happy
because there are a lot of canned a lot
of people running for the Democratic
nomination and there and you mostly
agree on things is that would you say
that's fair yeah so how are you
different from I mean obviously besides
being yourself and your your your
background but SAR as far as policy goes
as far as plan goes how are you
different because that's for me what I
need to figure out is like okay there's
a lot of people here yeah and how do you
I mean obviously it's gonna be a long
campaign and and all of us will you know
have opportunities to speak and the
voters will learn more and obviously the
voters ultimately will make the decision
I think one of the distinctions is I
have a background of having been a
leader and I think that the voters are
going to decide who will be the next
commander-in-chief and president United
States based on a experience of leading
I was and I led at a local government
level at state government announced
federal government I was the District
Attorney of San Francisco as the
Attorney General California where I led
an office of almost 5,000 people and now
obviously in the United States Senate I
think people are going to want and look
to who has a demonstrated ability to be
a fighter and to be a fighter for the
people I've done that work I took on the
five big banks of the United States when
we were fighting for the homeowners of
California and by extension of the
nation around the foreclosure crisis and
when they were you know basically
stealing from homeowners around these
these predatory mortgage practices I
also believe that what voters are going
to want is they're gonna want that there
is someone who has the proven ability to
prosecute the case against this
administration yeah and this president
yeah
having an ability and a proven ability
to be able to articulate the evidence
that makes the case for why we need a
new leadership and you're saying if you
are president and Donald Trump is out of
the White House you will then continue
to prosecute him and his various hench
characters
I am very supportive of Bob Muller being
able to finish his process on his job
yeah totally man finish his process are
you a Star Wars fan oh my god let me
just tell you I just turned into my 12
year old self in the green room I met
Mark Hamill and literally I met Luke
Skywalker I literally he said to me that
the force is with me I almost started
crying who needs the space force when
you have the actual thank you and he's
so interesting and he's so talented I
have an idea for you guys I think this
would be a very
[Applause]
[Music]
our foods as divided behind-the-scenes
in the Senate as they appear to be when
we see a hearing where people don't seem
to have any common ground whatsoever no
they're not no John do people do
Republican senators complain about
President Trump yeah thank you and they
roll their eyes but I'm gonna give you
an example though of also well first of
all I am leading two pieces of very
significant legislation that are
bipartisan one is to reform the money
bail system in the United States to get
rid of money bail because it is in
California and it's happening in
California because you know people are
literally sitting in jail for days weeks
and months waiting to go to trial just
because they can't afford to get out
meanwhile people who have money get out
and that's been an economic racial
injustice it really is yeah yeah so
there's that and that's with Rand Paul I
have a bill that is about what we need
to do to secure the election systems and
upgrade it so that the Russians can tack
our elections and that's with Senator
James Lankford from Oklahoma Republican
but I'll tell you this is in particular
another example of of the work that
happens behind the scenes I am on the
Senate Intelligence Committee and we
receive twice a week for hours at end
information in a place called a skiff
which is a secure location in our United
States capital from our intelligence
community about threats to our nation
and and issues that we should be
informed and concerned about when we
walk in that room people there are no
cameras there's no press there's no
audience people take off their jackets
they roll up their sleeves and some of
the most civilized and important
conversations take place in a way that
is not only bipartisan but is
nonpartisan so while we see so much of
partisanship that is attempting to
divide our country I will tell you at
least in my experience on these issues
around national security in a skiff
there is a lot of unity and that is very
hard can I come to one of those meetings
and that's something no I wouldn't be
able to
well I'd love to be part of the skiff I
really would
well stay strong I know it's going to be
a grueling I don't know how many months
are left but I'm sure I'm not going to
see and thank you for coming it's great
to have your senator congratulations on
making it to the end of the YouTube
video why not celebrate by clicking the
subscribe button you earned it